Three D joints.
In this video, we'll cover the concepts for three D joints.
We'll also look at various types of joints and we'll open up the Unity editor and will create a3d chain
using joints.
Recommended Viewing Section two Unity two D Physics Components introduces the core fundamentals of physics,
which also apply to three D.
It is suggested to watch Section two before Section three.
The joint component.
This component is what maintains a relationship either positional or rotational with one or more game
objects.
You can attach joints either to a game object with rigid body.
This is common or to a fixed position in world space.
As you can see, we have a game object with the familiar transform and rigid body, and then we add
a component of joint types of joints in three D there are many.
The hinge joint constrains to rigid bodies as if connected by a hinge.
For example, a typical swinging door that opens and closes or a chain.
The spring joint maintains a relationship between two game objects, as if by an elastic spring, for
example, the suspension of a wheel on a vehicle.
The fixed joint maintains a certain relative position angle and offset between two game objects.
The character joint is a ball socket joint used mainly for ragdoll physics.
We'll cover Ragdoll in a future section.
The configurable joint is extremely versatile.
It gives you complete control and you can build all other joints using it.
Let's take a look at the advanced properties here.
There are many different types of joints, but let's just look at one to get a feel.
We'll look at the character joint.
There are many properties we'll focus on just a few.
The Connected body is a reference to the other rigid body that this joint connects to.
The anchor is the position of the anchor around which the joints motion is constrained.
The auto configure connected is true by default.
When true, then the connected anchor property will be calculated automatically to match the global
position of the anchor property.
Limits.
This restricts the range of possible values for the joints world properties such as position, rotation
and movement to edit the joint angular limits.
You can do that visually or numerically by editing the twist limit and swing limit.
Let's create a3d chain.
The goal here will be to have a series of metal links where each link is interlocked with one or two
other links at runtime will move the top link and we'll see all the other links move in a believable
way.
The task Breakdown First on the top, we'll use a fixed joint to connect the top link to a fixed position
in the 3D world.
We'll use a cube to have a visual cue when the cube moves, the chain follows.
This way the cube acts like our handle and we can move it with the mouse.
Use a character joint to connect all other links to the link above.
Let's start the demo.
The three D chain begin seen Create a fixed joint to connect the top link to the cube.
Then we create a character joint to connect.
Each of the other links will play the scene and will move the cube in the scene and see the results.
Let's open up our next scene.
We'll use the three D chain begin.
The first step is to connect the chain link to the cube.
We'll do that with a fixed joint.
We can see now that when we move the cube.
We automatically get the movement of the link.
Now I'm going to duplicate.
And instead of a fixed joint.
We're going to use a character joint.
And I've pasted in some values from experimenting before so that what we have here is the anchor and
axis set to the top of the highlighted link.
That's going to make it swing from the top in a believable way.
Of course, we'd also want to rotate.
And now we get the result that we want.
Notice that chain link two is going to be connected to chain link one.
Now we'll just duplicate and replicate the same setup for several more links.
To duplicate.
I'm using control D, but there's a duplicate option here which takes the selected item in the hierarchy
and duplicates it.
Now to make it look believably.
I'm going to rotate each other 190 degrees.
There.
We've got a good looking effect.
Now revisit each character joint and make sure it's parented to the joint above.
Chain link to.
Connected to chain link one.
Let's run the scene and see how it looks.
Selecting the top cube, I can move it and see the result.
Looks really good.
You could add as many of these links as you want and get an even greater looking effect.
In the next video, we'll cover ragdoll physics.